---
title: "Year in Books 2021"
date: 2021-12-30T18:24:29-08:00
draft: false
---

2021 was another year for the books, both for myself and for the world. The world was ravaged with another year of the COVID-19 pandemic and the many variants of the virus, but we saw some hope with vaccines and booster shots. We collectively defined new ways of living, new comfort boundaries. It’s safe to say the world has changed forever. Personally, I had some pretty big life changes as well – I finished my first full year at my full-time job and I moved to a new city and made all of the lifestyle changes that come with it.

This year in books, however, was a lot different than past years have been, and I attribute that to a shift in mindset for why I read. Previously I used to only read books that I thought would get me ahead in work or life or books that would change my mindset using pure science and psychology. That resulted in a lot of my book interests being fairly homogenous and focused around a few select archetypes of thinkers. This year I spent my time listening to stories from diverse people, told through both fiction and non-fiction. I read memoirs of people who have had interesting (and frequently tragic) life experiences. I read both adult fiction and young adult fiction. I have loved seeing and be able to hear from new voices in the literary space, and my world has become infinitely wider from these stories, truth or not. While business and non-fiction impacts my life in one way, reading fiction certainly shifts the way I think and allows me to celebrate the beauty and diversity in the world, so both types of books deserve spots on my bookshelf.

This year, I won’t go through my entire reading list – I’ll let you take a look at my Goodreads Year in Books for that. I’ll instead spend the rest of this post giving special shoutouts to some of my favorite reads this year.

**Last Night at the Telegraph Club** is a young adult fiction book about “love and duty set in San Francisco’s Chinatown during the Red Scare”. I loved this book because it was a young adult fiction book that readers of all ages will find themselves in, and is set at such a unique crossroads of time, identity, and history that it was really un-put-downable. The book portrays a few different family scenarios of Chinese-American families in San Francisco during the 1950s, LGBTQIA+ themes, and struggles during a pivotal time in world history. The book was much deeper and more decadent than I ever expected when I picked it up, and I highly recommend it to everyone.

**The Body Keeps the Score** is an extremely well-researched book studying trauma. The author is a renowned researcher in trauma and its long-term impacts on the body and relationships. He also explores areas that have not been as well researched in trauma. He does so through giving firsthand accounts of patients he has worked with and studies he has conducted. I was extremely impressed with how science-rich this book was and how much I learned, without ever feeling like I was reading a textbook. I felt like I really got a firsthand look at how traumatized people experience the world differently than non-traumatized people, the ways in which modern medicine has failed, and the ways in which modern medicine has succeeded in the field of psychiatry. Dr. Van Der Kolk is truly passionate about his work and has put together one of the most informative books I’ve ever read.

The third book I’ll recommend is **Blue-Skinned Gods** by SJ Sindu. This book, set in Tamil Nadu in India, is about a boy who was born with blue skin who is led to believe that he is Kalki, the tenth avatar of the Hindu god Vishnu. Kalki starts to doubt himself as he lives his life in an ashram and endures several personal trials during his time. He eventually finds his way to the United States, a world completely different. This one had a really unique concept and I was really enamored by the writing style, especially during the first three-quarters or so of the book. Highly recommend for all of the riveting themes and the rich setting and character development.

I am looking forward to continuing my reading journey into 2022. For now, happy reading and Happy New Year, and I hope you have a healthy and safe holiday.